So now what we're going to do is do pretty
much the largest data mining application
that we're going to do in this class.
We're at the last chapter, we're at
the last example of the last chapter.
And so, we come back to the beginning.
When we started, we were looking at
a mailing list of the Sakai developer
community for all these
assignments from chapter seven on.
And so we're going to look at
a much larger fragment of that and
look at many years of this and
do some visualization at it, of this.
And so it's also going to show us
how to do a multi-step analysis.
Now, this is a large data set.
If you were to download all of this,
it might turn out to be about a gigabyte.
When I download this,
I can't download it in one day.
I sort of like start it and
let it run for a while.
And then I have to stop it, and then I
wait till the next day and do it, and so
I don't want you to use up all of
your personal network bandwidth,
especially if you're on a slow connection.
You don't have to do much of this,
the really large thing is unnecessary for
the class.
You only have to do the Word Cloud,
which doesn't require you to download so
much data.
It's just fun at times to look and
work at a bunch of data.
And so, if you were to download
all of this data,
you can get a copy of this
from the original source.
But don't touch that because our students
have crashed them before and that's
kind of rude to crash them because they're
nice folks and it's a free use site.
So I made a copy of all
the data that you need for
this assignment on mbox.dr-chuck.net.
And that's on a super-scalable server and
it's cached all around the world on
a thing called a content data network.
So that should be really, really easy and
you should get really fast communication.
As long as you're not paying in metered
bandwidth, just feel free to hit that as
hard as you want and
I'll watch my little bandwidth spikes.
You can watch me on Twitter and
I'll be like, holy mackerel,
I hit 20 megabytes this week,
or 20 gigabytes this week.
So mbox.dr-chuck.net should take
all of you hitting it pretty hard.
And because it might take you three or
four days of work to get to the point
where you've downloaded the whole thing.
If you're bored and
you really want to do it,
feel free to download all 60,000
messages from mbox.dr-chuck.net.
But I've also given you something
that's got sort of like most of
the data already done.
Read the file called readme.zip in the zip
file and then download that file and
unzip it.
And then start from there, and
you can download some more stuff, but
it saves you the first three or four
days of downloading by downloading that.
And again, that's compressed and
it's over 100 megabytes compressed and
so, if you're on a slow network
connection, don't do it.
But if you're on a fast network
connection, it's fun and
then things take a long time and you're
just crunching lots of data. And to me,
it's sort of satisfying to
crunch a whole bunch of data.
So this basically is the work that
we're going to do here.
And so, we have this website here that's,
you don't want to use this website, you've
got to use the mbox.dr-chuck website,
so don't actually talk to gmane.org.
That would be tacky.
So you talk to mbox here.
And then you're going to run a process
just like a couple things that we've done
that's a restartable process.
And so, what we do is we take and make
this restartable process that sort of just
copies some chunk of network
data into a local copy.
And this is a very raw database that
doesn't do too much complex stuff.
And then this data turns
out to be sort of dirty.
And the problem is, is that over the
five-year period that this data covers,
some people went from one
university to another,
some people went from one job to another,
and I wanted to map that.
And so, I made this little mapping file,
I'll show you, that sort of maps
domain names and email addresses,
so that everyone can go from their old
email address to the new email address.
And this is a real tiny, this
mapping.sqlite is a tiny little file, but
it informs gmodel.py.
And so, to pull all this down
is one to two days, right?
One to two days, and if you have to stop,
it might be three or four days.
To download the 100 megabytes of stuff,
probably took me three days,
and I have really fast connections,
both at the university and at home.
And so this is restartable, it's very raw.
We don't do much to it.
We just try to get the data and
focus on restartability and
error checking and
worry about the networking.
So that's again a very common thing
that the first thing you gotta do is
get the data on your hard drive
in your hot little hands.
Then we do this thing called gmodel.py.
This file right here could be as large
as 1GB, that's a pretty large file.
It's not compressed.
And then gmodel.py cleans this up and
creates a more relational model.
It uses foreign keys and
all those kind of things that we've talked
about to really compress the data down and
make it scan really fast.
because we're going to scan it a lot and
so gmodel.py,
it's kind of a slow processes.
But then this file is much smaller and
much more efficient to go through.
And then we have a series of
applications that read through this.
One is the word cloud,
this is the one you can do no
matter how much data you pull down.
And then the lines make more sense
if you get a few years of data.
And so I've got a one that is
more about individuals and
then another one that shows by year
which is more of an aggregate.
And these both produce a JavaScript
file that is then visualized by d3.
The same is true for the Word guy.
The Word makes a JavaScript
file of the words, and
then uses Word Cloud visualization.
And I'm giving you different
kinds of visualizations so
that you can kind of adapt
these if you feel like it.
There's many ways to visualize data.
I just happen to like this d3.js but
they're sometimes a little
difficult to figure out, okay?
And so that's roughly the outline
of the things we're going to do.
We're going to take a look at each
one of these programs in order and
then run them and take a look at the
output and we'll do that right after this.